In the third and final part of building the navigation,
we're going to code up that nice button that
is still missing from our navigation.
This is what it looks like.
This is basically composed of these three lines.
This line here in the middle, it will be simply a small
span element.
Okay.
This one here will be a before, pseudo element.
This one will be an after, pseudo element.
Instead of putting three of the same elements in the
HTML, we just put one and then we use
pseudo-classes to make the rest.
Okay.
Then, when we click, well, you see that the one
in the middle disappears, and the other one rotates
in order for it to form this cross.
And that's it.
Well, it looks easier than it is, but we can still
do it, of course.
Making the HTML, this is where it will be.
Okay.
We're going to have a span called, "Navigation Icon".
And it will be empty.
Let's just post this, "nbsp," here again.
Navigation icon.
Let's add some color to here.
Icon.
Then, let's set the functionality.
Let's put that in the icon, down here.
All right.
As I was saying, we are going to create
a before and an after pseudo element.
There are some styles that all of the three will share.
Let's start with these for now.
The icon element itself, then the before pseudo element,
and the after pseudo element, as well.
These three will have a width of 3 rem, and a height
of only two pixels.
Okay?
Here we use pixels because we don't want this to change.
It will always be two pixels no matter what the
base size should be.
The very simple background color will be some nice,
dark - so let's get that actually.
The darkest one that we have, and that is this one, here.
Okay.
Remember that in order for the before and after
pseudo elements to actually appear on the page,
they need to have their content property defined.
Let's do that.
Content, and once again it will be empty.
Now, they also need to have their display property set.
We can do that in here because we want all of them
to be in line blocks, for obvious reasons, right?
All right.
Let's just take a look.
It will not look really good for now.
It's kind of a start.
Okay?
Let's continue.
Well, maybe, actually, let's see which one is which.
If we inspect this one, then this one here is the span.
Okay, the first one is the span and the other two are
the after and the before pseudo elements.
I'm not really sure why they are located where they are,
but that doesn't really matter.
Okay?
How are we going to position these?
I suggest we just use absolute positioning.
Position absolute, and then on the parent one,
well, it's actually not here.
The parent one is just the icon.
That's the parent element.
We need to specify the position here as well.
This one is relative.
The before and the after, they are then positioned
in relation to the span element, so to the icon
element, itself.
Now, they should be zero from the left, and then
we want one at the top and one at the bottom.
Okay, let's do that.
So, one for each.
Before that's to say top minus one ram, so to move it up,
basically.
Then the other one, the after, top one rem, so to just
move it down.
Let's take a look now.
All right.
That looks a lot better already.
We see that the one in the middle is the span element.
Now, if you want now center this horizontally, then
we can simply set the text align property here to center
on the navigation button.
All right.
Let's do that one.
Text align, center.
Then all we have to do is just move down all of this
a little bit.
We just have to give it a margin top here of three rem,
let's say.
That looks pretty good already.
Maybe three point five rem.
That's excellent already.
It's really nice and assembled.
It looks like this already.
While this one here is a bit closer,
so the lines are closer.
Let's do that as well.
Minus point eight, and point eight here as well.
Just eight pixels.
One or two pixels can make a huge difference sometimes,
as we just saw.
All right.
That's for the styling.
Now, we want, first of all, this to happen when we hover it.
These move a bit up.
Actually, also this hand cursor, here, right?
The pointer is not happening right here,
for obvious reasons.
Let's do that as well.
That is here.
Cursor, pointer.
All right.
That will fix that one.
Now we want, as soon as we hover the button, these
lines to space out a little bit.
How do we do that?
It's not difficult.
I'd simply select the button, of course, because
that's where we want to hover.
Button, hover.
Then, from there, we can select the icon.
We actually want the pseudo element, before.
We can do it this way because the icon is
a child element of the button.
The button and the icon.
That's a childe element.
We can just select it like this.
Very easy.
What we want to animate here is actually the top property.
All right.
So that was minus point eight, here.
Let's put it as minus one, now.
And then the same thing actually for the after.
After, now, one.
Then, of course, we need to transition all of this.
Transition, all, in point two seconds.
All right.
Now, I could have done all of this here with translate,
maybe, instead of top and absolute positioning, but
it's all right.
It's absolutely no problem, as long as it works.
Different tools will do the same job.
Okay?
Let's close this one here.
That looks really nice.
That's our functionality already.
All that's left to do is to now basically rotate these
two here to form a cross and make the one
in the middle disappear.
Let's start actually with that, making one disappear.
That shouldn't be so difficult, as well, right?
Now, when does this actually happen?
Well, this is back to the checkbox, right?
When the checkbox is checked, then, we want
something to happen.
What do we want to happen?
We want to select here this button.
This button is a sibling.
It's actually an adjacent sibling.
We can use the plus, here.
Before we have to fix that.
We can use the plus because it is an adjacent sibling.
Then, button.
Then from there we can select the chart element again,
such as we did up here.
The icon in this case.
You got that?
When the checkbox is selected, then we select its
brother, basically, which is called a button.
Then, we select the button's child, which is the icon.
All right?
Again, the same logic with the checkbox hack that I
explained to you before.
Okay, this one we want to disappear.
Now, we don't want to really change its size.
Okay?
This element has a size, but the after and the before
pseudo elements, they depend on this size, right?
They're positioned in relation to that size.
If we now remove that size -
If we would remove the width and the height of this element,
then it would change the positions of the before and after.
We don't want that.
We will keep it very simple.
All we do here is to change
the background color to transparent.
You see, we've been using transparent a lot of time,
and that's because, well, sometimes that is very handy
just to make an element invisible like that.
Okay.
That is the first step.
We're getting closer.
Next up, we do the same thing here with the after and
the before.
Before, well not this, of course.
And the after.
What do we with these, actually?
Well, as we said, we are going to rotate them.
Transform.
Rotate.
Basically, it looks like they are 45 degrees rotated.
Right?
Let's rotate one.
45 degrees in one direction, and the other one in
the opposite direction.
If they rotate in opposite directions, they should
create this cross.
Let's take a look at that.
Well, kind of, okay? (chuckling)
Not really there yet, but it's starting to work.
Why is it not working?
That's because of two factors.
First up, we should move them to the middle.
Okay?
Now, they're still spaced out in relation to the
one in the middle.
We should move them back to zero.
A top of zero.
The same for this one, here.
This is actually a lot of experimentation and stuff.
I really had to experiment around in order to make it work.
Don't think you have to be actually
able to code up all of this really
quickly like I'm doing here, because
that's not the reality.
Usually, we have to try out some things.
Try your different tools.
Thats's excatly why we have these tools, so that we
can use them.
So that we can test them and find a final solution.
That's what I did here.
That's the one that I'm showing you.
All right.
It already looks pretty good.
Right?
Now, I want to make this a little bit better.
Now you see, now they are basically
just moving down like that.
See that?
Again.
Here, it looks a bit cooler.
It rotated a bit more.
Let's do that.
What we're going to do here is rotate them 180 degrees,
minus 45.
Okay?
180 degrees is half a rotation, and if we subract 45
from that, we end up basically with not a quarter of
a circle, which is this one, but three quarters.
Let's do that.
180 minus 45 is 135.
This is just a small nuance that I'm adding here.
It's basically the same.
Oh, that's the one.
Here we go.
That's it.
That's really it.
It's working now.
It's working great.
It looks beautiful.
It is really fantastic.
Now, I promised to show you another property, which I
didn't really show you because I'm
not actually needing it.
That one is called, "transform origin."
What that does is, basically,
it describes where the transformation happens.
Okay?
Let me show that to you, for example, here in one of these.
Just the before one.
Transform origin.
Believe me, sometimes this can be useful just for variety.
I will make this animation a bit slower,
so we can see what's going on here better.
That's what happens when you say that the origin
of the transformation should be at the right side.
Let's take a look at that again.
You see what happens?
I've set it to be on the right side.
What this does is that the center of the rotation
is at the right side of the element.
You see that?
It doesn't quite look like it because we're also,
at the same time, moving it to another position
because of this top transformation which is happening
right here, as well.
Let me take that out.
This is just to show you.
We will put it back in a bit.
Now, you can see everything clearer, especially on this one.
This stays at the exact same place.
This is the only one where I had changed it.
It should only be happening here.
This is in the right side of the element.
The rotation happens now around this point.
Take a look again.
You see it?
It stays there.
Let's put it to left side now.
Just take a look.
Remember, I only did this at the before, so
the after doesn't matter here.
Let's put it at left.
This is what it looks like then.
Now, it will probably be around this point, here, right?
Let's see.
Yes, actually that is what happens.
Sometimes, when we rotate something, for example,
this can be really helpful in order to rotate it exactly
where we want it.
If you don't specify it at all, then it's basically
just in the center.
That's what you can observe here.
It rotates around this point, here, in the center.
Just to show you another property, which can
be helpful at times.
Put this one here back.
I think that was it.
Okay, I also have to change the speed.
Here we go.
That's it.
That's our animation.
Really fine.
Really great.
Now, all we have to do, really, to finish this project -
well, at least the first part of the project, because
we have a second part coming up.
To finish this entire project, what we have to do is this.
This very nice popup, here, this is what we
are going to do over the next couple of lectures.